#### What is the question you hope to answer?
Can the data used for predicting the likelihood of new state-led mass killings for a country in a given year be used to predict the likely severity of violent conflicts in the following year? Specifically, can a model be created to predict likelihood of severe mass killings (>100,000 people of a targeted group) and what countries would this model predict to be the most likely to have severe mass killings in 2011?
#### What data are you planning to use to answer that question?
Data has been aggregated from multiple sources by the Early Warning Project. Data up to the end of 2014 is available from this project in a GitHub repo [here](https://github.com/EarlyWarningProject/2015-Statistical-Risk-Assessment). This data has also been cloned and made available in the following directory: "source\2015-Statistical-Risk-Assessment-master".
#### What do you know about the data so far?
I know the results of this data provide predictions for likelihood of state-let mass killings through statistical models for risk assessment. The data also may be visualized in a number of enlightening ways that provide a deeper look in to the dataset, such as a plot showing the number of new state-led mass killings (SLMK) per year and the number of on-going state-led mass killings per year. (The question this invokes is why did certain years have spikes in new SLMK such as 7 in 1991 and 6 in 1975 meanwhile 2012 only had 6 total SLMKs). A great overview of the risk assessment models may be seen [here](https://www.earlywarningproject.org/risk_assessments).
#### Why did you choose this topic?
Mass killings in the past half-century, especially those commonly classified as genocides such as in Rwanda, Cambodia, and Bangladesh, have lead to the slaughter of millions of people. I am very interesting in gaining a better understanding to what light statistical analysis can shed on understanding what key factors lead to these mass killings. From looking in to this issue further, I have found a project called "Early Warning Project" which uses data modelling to classify countries and predict the likelihood of new state-led mass killings occurring in the following year based on those classifications.

The Early Warning Project intends to use this modelling to "deepen understanding of where new policies and resources can help make a difference in averting atrocities and what strategies are most effective." My curiosity was sparked particularly in light of the atrocities happening today in Syria (with chemical warfare being using just this last week, April 2017). At the time of this writing, the death tolls estimates for the 6 years of civil war in Syria are between 1/4 to 1/2 million people. I am interested in knowing if we had sufficient data to predict that a serious world event was likely coming to Syria before the war started in March of 2011.
